### React Fragment

- Fragment: when we want to render multiple elements then we have to write it inside div. some developers didn't like it so react introduced fragments in react 16.2 i.e. <React.Fragment></React.Fragment> sortcut will be <></>

### React Lifecycles methods

- react has 3 lifecycles. mounting, updating and unmounting.

- constructor => component is being initlilized with initial value in form of state and props inside the constructor method.

- mounting => Mounting is the phase in which our React component mounts on the DOM

- static getderivedstatefromprops - this is rearly used metod and this is static means we cant use this with this method.
  if we have a component and initial state of this component depend on props in such scenerio we use this method to set the state.

- componentwillmount => this is called just before component mounts at DOM or just before render method. Dont call api calls in this method as it is called before render.

- render only required method, simply read props and state and return jsx.

- componentdidmount => invoked imidiately after component and all its children component has been renderds to the DOM, this is perfect for side effects like api call

- updating => called when a component gets rerendered due to the changes in states or props.

- static getderivedstatefromprops - called everytime when a component is re-rendered, which receives state and props as its parameter and returns either null or updated state of component.

- shouldComponentUpdate => Takes next props and next state as parameter, it dictartes whether a component should render or not , in react if a props or state of a component changes, component will rerender but using this method we can stop it. it compares the previous state or props then decided wether component should rerender or not, used for performance enchancement. By default, it returns true.

- componentWillUpdate() => It is called before the re-rendering of the component takes place. It is called once after the shouldComponentUpdate method. If you want to perform some calculation before re-rendering of the component and after updating the state and prop, then this is the best place to do it.

- getsnapshotbeforeupdate => it takes previous state and previous props as a parameter. called just before the chnages happen in DOM by the virtual DOM. it used to capture some information from DOM. return either null or a third value which will be passed to component did update.

- ComponentDidUpdate => take 3 value as argument, prevstate, prevprops and snapshot.called after render is finished in rerender cycles. this is called only once in a render cycle so we can do side effects like api Calls

- unmounting => the component gets unmounted from the DOM in this phase.

- componentWillUnmount => method is called before the unmounting of the component takes place. Before the removal of the component from the DOM. called just before component gets destroyed from DOM. it used to clean actions like removing event handlers, cancelling the Subscriptions.

- note: pure component should have shouldcomponetupadte method for shallow props and state comparision.

### React Hooks

- useState: useState is the Hook which needs to call inside a function component to add some local state to it. The useState returns
  a pair where the first element is the current state value/initial value, and the second one is a function which allows us to update it.

- useEffect: Effects Hooks are equivalent to componentDidMount(), componentDidUpdate(), and componentWillUnmount() lifecycle methods. It runs after first render and after every update. side effects have common features which the most web applications need to perform, such as: Updating the DOM,
  Fetching and consuming data from a server API, Setting up a subscription, etc.
- array contains so called dependencies for useEffect, that is, variables on which useEffect depends on to re-run. When the array is empty, the effect runs only once.

### React

Webpack compiles these into a single file(bundle).

Babel is a JavaScript compiler and transpiler used to convert one source code to others. It compiles React JSX and ES6 to ES5 JavaScript which can be run on all browsers.

JSX stands for JavaScript XML

Whenever any modifications happen in the web application, the entire UI is re-rendered in virtual DOM representation. Then it checks the difference between the previous DOM representation and new DOM. Once it has done, the real DOM will update only the things that have actually changed.

JSX cannot allow to use if-else statements. Instead of it, you can use conditional (ternary) expressions.

They are simply JavaScript functions that may or may not receive data as parameters.
functional component is also known as a stateless component because they do not hold or manage state.

Class components are more complex than functional components. It requires you to extend from React. Component and create a render function which returns a React element. You can pass data from one class to other class components.
The class component is also known as a stateful component because they can hold or manage local state.

Props are passed to the component in the same way as arguments passed in a function.
Props are immutable so we cannot modify the props from inside the component.

App.propTypes is used for props validation in react component. When some of the props are passed with an invalid type, you will get the warnings on JavaScript console.

1. Props are read-only. / State changes can be asynchronous.
2. Props are immutable. / State is mutable.
3. Props allow you to pass data from one component to other components as an argument. / State holds information about the components.
4. Props can be accessed by the child component. / State cannot be accessed by child components.
5. Props are used to communicate between components. / States can be used for rendering dynamic changes with the component.
6. Stateless component can have Props. / Stateless components cannot have State.
7. Props make components reusable. / State cannot make components reusable.
8. Props are external and controlled by whatever renders the component. / The State is internal and controlled by the React Component itself.

### redux

redux is used to manage the state
components dispatch the action, these actions reaches to reducers, reducers can be one or many, reducers goes to store which manages all the states, and when the actions been perforformed then sent a trigger to subscription and finally it is passes the updated state as props to the component.

### error boundry

in react 16, a new feature but only applies at class component, sometimes js code breaks due to bug or any action then by using error boundry we use to stop the UI from completely breaking.
